# Frame Assembly

## Step 1 - Tools Required

- 4mm Hex Key for M5 bolts
- Flat surface
- Small carpenter's square

**Note:** *It is critical that the frame be as square as possible and to aid in that process it you need to find the flattest surface you have available. Do not just assume something is flat! Check with a straight-edge or ruler by placing the edge against a surface and shining a light behind it to see if you can see any major gaps. Less than 1mm gap anywhere is critical and no visible gaps is preferred. A stone countertop is often a great flat surface if you have one but most desks or tables will probably work. Just check first!*

<!-- - 240mm Aluminum Extrusion, HFS5-2020-240 (x4) -->

## Step 2 - Frame Sides Components

- 200mm Aluminum Extrusion, HFS5-2020-200 (x4)
- 210mm Aluminum Extrusion, HFS5-2020-210 (x4)
- 2020 Extrusion Brackets (with included bolts and nuts), HBLFSN5-SEP (x8)

## Step 3 - Assemble Frame Side

- Take 4 brackets and, for each, insert a bolt into each side, then lightly twist a spring-nut onto each. For the side with two holes use the hole farthest from the middle.
- Lay 2 of the 200mm extrusions beside each other on your chosen flat surface and from each end slide a bracket/bolt/nut assembly into the channel as shown.
- Now take 2 of the 210mm extrusions and slide them onto the bracket nuts of one 200mm extrusion and then the other. As shown, the edge of the 210mm extrusions should be flush with the ends of the 200mm extrusions.
- Using the hex key, start to tighten the bolts but don't go all the way. Once they are tight enough to roughly hold shape press the whole assembly flat against your work surface and check each corner with a square. If needed make any adjustments so the whole side frame is as square and flat as possible.
- Once satisfied, tighten all bolts.

## Step 4 - Repeat

Do everything from step 3 again with the remaining 200mm and 210mm extrusions.

## Step 5 - Remaining Components

- 240mm Aluminum Extrusion, HFS5-2020-240 (x4)
- 2020 Extrusion Brackets (with included bolts and nuts), HBLFSN5-SEP (x16)

## Step 6 - Complete Frame

- Take the remaining 16 extrusion brackets and insert just one bolt and then twist on a spring nut to each.
- On each of the 240mm extrusions slide 2 brackets onto each side as shown. 90&deg; opposed to each other, with the same orientation on boths sides.
- Make sure each bracket is flush with the end of the extrusion and tighten the bolt so they won't move easily, but not all the way.
- On each side frame assembly, insert 2 spring nuts in each corner as shown.
- Starting with one side frame assembly, match up a 240mm extrusion to each corner and insert the remaining bolts into each of the brackets, mating up with the spring nuts and tightening lightly.
- Repeat the process with the other side frame assembly.

## Step 7 - Squareness Check and Tightening

- Start by resting the frame on any of the sides with the 240mm extrusions and making sure it can be pressed flat against your work surface without any wobble. Also check all that side's corners are square. Tighten all bolts on that side.
- Flip the frame 180&deg; and repeat the above process.
- Flip the frame 90&deg; check for flatness and square again. Tighten all bolts.
- Flip to the remaining 240mm side check for flattness and square. Tighten all bolts.
- Now check all 6 sides against your work surface and ensure there's no wobble.
- Check all 3 sides of all 8 corners with a square.
- If any side wobbles, loosen the bolts on one corner and a time, press down and re-tighten to see if the wobble goes away.
- Visually inspect the end of each extrusion (where it was cut) and make sure that the mating extrusion sides are completely flush with the end.
- When satisfied, double-check the tightness on all bolts. With a ~100mm long hex key they should be as tight as you can get with one hand using the long side for leverage.

