# Motors and Belts

## Tools Required

- 2.5mm Hex Key for M3 Bolts
- ?mm Hex Key for set screws
- Snippers for cutting belt

## Step 1

- `Y_Motor_Mount` (x1)
- `Y_Pulley_Mount` (x1)
- M5x10mm Bolt, CB5-10 (x5)
- Post Assembly Spring Nut, HNTP5-5 (x5)
- GT2-16 3mm Bore Idler Pulley (x1)
- GT2-16 5mm Bore Drive Pulley (x1)
- NEMA 17 Stepper Motor
- ?mm bolt (x4)
- ?mm bolt (x1)
- M3 nut (x1)

## Step 2

- One the back, drive-side of the machine mount `Y_Motor_Mount` so that it is sitting directly on top of the rod holder, as shown, using 3 pairs of M5x10mm bolts and spring nuts. Note that the 2 spring nuts on the inside channel of the extrusion need to be inserted in the orientation shown. (pic from fusion with transparency)
- Using the 4 ?mm bolts, mount the NEMA 17 stepper motor to the mount ensuring the the wires coming out of the motor are facing down. Wrap these up to keep them out of the way for now.
- Slide the GT2-16 drive pulley over the motor shaft, as shown, so that one of the set screws is aligned with the flat edge on the shaft. Only lightly tighten that one set screw for now.
- One the front, drive-side of the machine mount `Y_Pulley_Mount` so that it is sitting directly on top of the rod holder, as shown, using 2 pairs of M5x10mm bolts and spring nuts. Note that the 2 spring nuts need to be inserted in the orientation shown. (pic from fusion with transparency)
- Place the GT2-16 idler pulley into the mount and pass the ?mm bolt through it, then secure with a bolt inserted into the hexagonal recess. Tighten until finger tight.


## Step 3

- `Y_Tensioner` (x1)
- M3x30mm Bolt (x1)
- M3 nut (x1)


## Step 4

- Take the belt inserted into `Y_Drive_Main` and run it through the idler pulley as shown the back to the motor and around the drive pulley, as shown.
- Slide the X-Axis assembly to the back (towards the motor) and pull the belt tight. Holding it over the Y-Axis drive block there is a marking on the top showing where the belt needs to be cut. Cut the belt with the snippers where it meets that mark.
- Now insert the end of the belt all the way into `Y_Tensioner` (*note that this tensioner marked with one dot whereas the one for the X-Axis is marked with 2 dots and is a mirror image*).
- Insert the M3 nut into the slot in the tensioner and then insert it into the Y-Axis block as shown, making sure the nut doesn't fall out.
- Now insert the M3x30mm bolt into the other side and turn until it grabs onto the nut and starts pulling the tensioner block in. **DO NOT** fully tension it at this point. We will come back to that.

## Step 5

- GT2-16 3mm Bore Idler Pulley (x1)
- GT2-16 5mm Bore Drive Pulley (x1)
- NEMA 17 Stepper Motor
- `X_Tensioner` (x1)
- M3x30mm Bolt (x1)
- ?mm bolt (x4)
- ?mm bolt (x1)
- M3 nut (x2)

## Step 6

- Mount the NEMA 17 stepper motor to `X_Motor_Mount` using the 4 ?mm bolts, as shown, ensuring that the wires coming from the motor are facing down. Wrap these up to keep them out of the way for now.
- Slide the GT2-16 drive pulley over the motor shaft, as shown, so that one of the set screws is aligned with the flat edge on the shaft. Only lightly tighten that one set screw for now.
- Take the belt inserted into the X-Axis carriage and loop it around the GT2-16 idler pulley and pinch the belt to keep it there. Then insert the pulley with the belt into the pulley mount on `Y_Drive_Main` and pass the ?mm bolt through it, then secure with a bolt inserted into the hexagonal recess. Tighten until finger tight. (*You can technically install the pulley first then run the belt through, but we found this to be easier).
- Move the X-Axis carriage all the way towards X-Axis motor you just installed, then pull the belt back towards the X-Axis carriage, holding it tight against the back of there carriage where you will see another small mark. Cut the belt at this mark.
- Now insert the end of the belt all the way into `X_Tensioner` (*note that this tensioner marked with two dots whereas the one for the Y-Axis is marked with 1 dot and is a mirror image*).
- Insert the M3 nut into the slot in the tensioner and then insert it into the X-Axis carriage as shown, making sure the nut doesn't fall out.
- Now insert the M3x30mm bolt into the other side and turn until it grabs onto the nut and starts pulling the tensioner block in.

## Step 7 - Tensioning

- Go back to the Y-Axis belt and now use the 2.5mm hex key to turn the M3x30mm tension bolt
- You want the belt to be tight enough that it provides some resistance when trying to press both sides of the belt together with 2 fingers. The belt should remain straight on its own and not sag under it's own weight. If plucking the belt produces a high pitch note it is likely too tight.
- If the tensioner block bottoms out before it's properly tight, just unscrew the M3x30mm bolt all the way, remove the belt from the tensioner block, snip of 1-2 of the teeth, re-insert and try again.
- If the tensioner block is still sticking out of the main body when fully tensioned, unscrew the M3x30mm bolt all the way, remove the belt from the tensioner block, and then re-insert it a couple teeth further back and try again. You need to be contacting at least 4 teeth on the tensioner block.
- Now repeat the above with the X-Axis

