# Controller

**Note 1:** *The Engravinator is a flexible platform that is capable of using a wide variety of controller boards. It you bought a kit from Maniacal Labs, it likely came with the [Platypus](https://ManiacalLabs.com/Platypus) controller so that's what we will show here. It was designed specifically with the Engravinator in mind and simplifies the process as much as possible. Installing another controller will likely be very similar. Please check out the [Controllers Info](https://engravinator.com/controllers) for more on using another controller.

**Note 2:** *This section assumes that you already have a fully assembled controller board with stepper drivers installed and configured correctly. If you are using the [Platypus](https://ManiacalLabs.com/Platypus) please refer to its documentation for correct setup. If using another controller please refer to its documentation.*

## Tools Required

- 4mm Hex Key for M5 bolts
- Wire strippers
- Wire snips

## Controller Base Plate

### Components

- `BasePlate_Platypus` (x1)
- M5x10mm Bolt, CB5-10 (x2)
- Post Assembly Spring Nut, HNTP5-5 (x2)
- M3x10mm bolt (x4)
- Platypus Controller Board

### Step 1 - Mount Base Plate

- Insert the 2 spring nuts as shown
- Place M5 bolts through the holes in the base plate and use them to better align the spring nuts. The base plate should be flush with the side and bottom.
- Tighten the bolts.

### Step 2 - Mount Controller

- Using the 4 M3x10mm bolts, mount the controller to the base plate as shown.
- Be sure that the USB and Power ports are facing out to the left (while looking at the back).

## Controller Wiring

### Step 1 - Motors

- Run the X motor cable through the lower right hole on the base plate.
- If using a motor without a terminating connector, pull the wires towards the X motor terminal on the controller to determine the total length you need. You may trim of any excess, making sure to leave enough to comfortably reach the terminal. If you do, be sure to strip ~3mm of insulation from the end of each wire.
- Using the screw terminals or male header (if your motor has a female header on the cable) connect the wires as follows:
    - A+ -> ?
    - A- -> ?
    - B+ -> ?
    - B- -> ?
- Now run the Y motor cable through the same base plate hole and repeat the steps above.

### Step 2 - Limit Switches

- Run the X limit switch cable through the top-middle hole in the base plate.
- Strip ~3mm of insulation from the ends of the wires (if not already) and connect it to the Limit terminal where it's marked X. Polarity doesn't matter.
- Run the Y limit switch cable through the same hole and repeat the same connection process, but where it's marked Y.

### Step 3 - Laser / Servo Connection

- Run your cable through the top-left base plate hole.
- If your laser cable with a cable that terminates in dual 2-pin connectors:
    - Use the connector as shown.
    - Red is 12V
    - Black is Ground
    - Yellow is PWM
- If your laser cable terminals in a single 3-pin connector:
    - Use the connector shown:
    - Red is 12V
    - Black is Ground
    - Yellow is PWM
- If you are using a servo, use the servo connector shown. **NOTE!!** The servo uses 5V instead of 12V. If you connect to the headers marked for the laser you will blow up your servo!
    - Use the connector shown:
    - Black is Ground
    - Red is 5V
    - Orange is PWM/Signal
- Alternatively you may use the `Laser/Servo` screw terminal and follow the color codings listed above to connect each wire to the right spot. If you have 2 black/ground wires, just insert them into the same terminal slot.


Hooray, your nearly there! Don't worry about putting the controller cover on at this point. Let's do some pre-flight checks in the next section.
Also, if you have the enclosure, we will install that *after* the pre-flight checks.