# X-Axis Assembly

## Tools Required

- 2.5mm Hex Key for M3 bolts
- Snippers for cutting belt

## Y Drive Side

### Components

**Note:** *Yes, some of the components listed here have Y in their name. The X-Axis is mostly held together with some components from the Y-Axis*

- LMU8 Linear Bearing (x4)
- 250mm x 8mm Linear Rod, PSFJ8-250 (x2)
- `Y_Drive_Main` (x1)
- `Y_Drive_Plate` (x1)
- GT2 Belt 550mm
- M3 nut (x7)
- M3x15mm bolt (x2)
- M3x20mm bolt (x5)

### Assembly

- Insert one end of the GT2 belt into the belt holder in `Y_Drive_Main` as shown, ensuring it is fully inserted flush. We recommend rolling up the belt at this point and securing it with a zip tie or rubber band. We'll get back to it later.
- Insert 2 of the LMU8 bearings into the recess of `Y_Drive_Main` then cover with `Y_Drive_Plate` as shown.
- Insert an M3 nut into each of the 5 recesses and then an M3x20mm bolt into the hole and tighten.
- Insert each of the 250mm rods into `Y_Drive_Main` as shown. Ensure that the ends of the rods are flush with the outside edge of the printed part.
- Insert an M3x15mm bolt into each of the rod compression clamps and a nut on the opposite side (it has a hexagonal recess on the side for the nut).
- Tighten the bolts to lock the rods in place.
- Slide 1 of the LMU8 bearings onto each of the rods. Be careful when you do this that none of the balls are pushed out. The bearings should go on smoothly. If they are not you probably don't have it lined up properly.

## Idle Side and X Motor Mount

### Components

- LMU8 Linear Bearing (x2)
- `Y_Idle_Main` (x1)
- `Y_Idle_Plate` (x1)
- `X_Motor_Mount` (x1)
- M3 nut (x8)
- M3x20mm bolt (x4)
- M3x15mm bolt (x4)

### Assembly

- Insert 2 of the LMU8 bearings into the recess of `Y_Idle_Main` then cover with `Y_Idle_Plate` as shown, ensuring the notch is at the bottom lining up with the rod hole.
- Insert an M3 nut into each of the 4 recesses and then an M3x20mm bolt into each hole and tighten.
- Take the Y-Idle assembly and slide it over the ends of the 250mm rods as shown, leaving about 25mm of the rod protruding. DO NOT add the bolts and tighten this assembly yet!
- Slide `X_Motor_Mount` onto the ends of the rods making sure that the longer leg is on the bottom and that the ends of the rods are flush with the outside edge of the mount, as shown.
- Insert an M3x15mm bolt and M3 nut into each of the compression clamps and tighten.
- Now move the Y-Idle assembly, if necessary, to ensure it is fully pressed up against the `X_Motor_Mount`. Insert an M3x15mm bolt and M3 nut into each of the compression clamps and tighten.

## X Axis Carriage

### Components

- `X_Back_Plate` (x1)
- `X_Front_Plate` (x1)
- GT2 Belt 510mm
- M3 nut (x6)
- M3x20mm bolt (x6)

## Assembly

- Insert one end of the GT2 belt into the belt holder in `X_Front_Plate` as shown. We recommend rolling up the belt at this point and securing it with a zip tie or rubber band. We'll get back to it later.
- Take `X_Front_Plate` and position into one the 2 LMU8 bearings that are on the X-Axis rods.
- Place `X_Back_Plate` over the bearings ensuring everything mates up nicely with the bearings and `X_Front_Plate`.
- Insert the M3x20 bolts into each of the 6 holes shown on `X_Back_Plate` and then insert the nuts into the hexagonal recesses on `X_Front_Plate`.
- Tighten the bolts, starting with the two in the middle. Then two opposing top and bottom corners. Then the remaining two.

That's all for the X-Axis. Put it aside for now. Have a cookie.
